README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="figures/Fire_AMR.png" alt="Fire Architecture" width="400">

</p>

# Fire - Adaptive Mesh Refinement Solver for Compressible Reacting Flows

**Fire** is an open-source CFD solver specializing in compressible reacting flows, built upon the [ECOGEN-v2.0](https://github.com/code-mphi/ECOGEN/tree/38da6745034a541fa9355ebc57f413c4ac8ef7a4) framework with enhanced combustion modeling capabilities. Key features include:

- 🚀 Advanced AMR strategies for flame and wave front resolution
- 🔥 Integrated Cantera chemistry solver
- 📐 Multi-dimensional simulation support (1D-3D)
- 🧪 Validated against benchmark combustion cases

## Table of Contents
1. [Installation](#1-installation)  
2. [Example Cases](#2-example-cases)  
3. [Post-Processing](#3-post-processing)  
4. [Input File Configuration](#4-input-file-configuration)  
5. [Architecture Overview](#5-architecture-overview)

---

## 1. Installation

### Prerequisites
- Linux OS (Ubuntu 20.04/RedHat tested)
- MPI implementation (OpenMPI recommended)
- Conda package manager
- Cantera 3.1.0 with C++ interface
- cmake 3.10 or higher


### Step-by-Step Setup

1. **Install libcantera-devel 3.0.0b1**
```bash
conda create --name ct --channel cantera/label/dev libcantera-devel==3.0.0b1
```

2. **Install MPI (Ubuntu)**
```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install openmpi-bin openmpi-common libopenmpi-dev
```

3. **Build Fire Solver**
```bash
# From any example case directory:
./run.sh [options]

# Available options:
#   --debug    - Debug build
#   -j N       - Use N parallel processes
#   --no-run   - Build only
```

> **Note**  
> The conda environment **must** be named `ct` for automatic build detection

---

## 2. Example Cases

| Case Name                  | Description                                  | Dimensions | Reference |
|----------------------------|----------------------------------------------|------------|-----------|
| `1D_detonation`            | Gaseous detonation wave                     | 1D         | [Paolucci 2014](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2014.01.025) |
| `1D_H2-Air_deflagration`            | Gaseous deflagaration wave                     | 1D         | None|
| `2D_ISBI_Case_[1-5]`                  | Inert shock-bubble interaction with different grid setups                 | 2D         | [Ding 2018](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5050091) |
| `2D_RSBI`                  | Reactive shock-bubble interaction                    | 2D         | [Diegelmann 2016](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.combustflame.2016.09.014) |
| `2D_Channel_detonation_[1-2]`    |  Detonation with cellular structures using HLLC or HLLC-LM schemes          | 2D         | [Paolucci 2014](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2014.03.059) |
| `3D_Channel_detonation`    | Large-scale & challenging detonation simulation           | 3D         | None |

**Case Setup Instructions:**
- For each case, the setup files are located in the `input_files/`.
- Detailed instructions can be found in [manuals of ECOGEN-v2.0](https://github.com/code-mphi/ECOGEN/tree/38da6745034a541fa9355ebc57f413c4ac8ef7a4/libTests).

**Avoid spaces in paths**
- Ensure all directory paths (including those for `Fire` or case files) contain no spaces.  
  **Valid example:** `/home/user1/test_case/Fire`  
  **Invalid example:** `/home/user1/test case/Fire`  

**Quick Start:**
```bash
cd example_cases/1D_detonation
./run.sh
```

```bash
cd example_cases/2D_RSBI
./run.sh
```

---

## 3. Post-Processing

Simulation outputs are stored in `results/[Case_Name]/` in the case folder with:

- AMR grid data in `*.vtu` format in `datasets/` folder
- Time metadata in `infoCalcul.out`
- ParaView collection file `collectionParaview.pvd`

Recommended visualization workflow:
- Open `collectionParaview.pvd` in ParaView
- Use `pMax` field for cellular structure analysis
- 1D case results can be plotted using the `plot_1D_*.py` script prepared in the 1D case folders.

---

## 4. Input File Configuration

### Essential Parameters

| Parameter              | Location        | Values          | Description                  |
|------------------------|-----------------|-----------------|------------------------------|
| `riemann_type`         | meshV5.xml      | 1(HLL), 2(HLLC), 3(HLLC-LM) | Inviscid flux scheme selection        |
| `gradRho_flag`         | meshV5.xml      | 0/1             | Turn on/off the 3rd AMR strategy   |
| `lvlHydro`/`lvlChem`   | meshV5.xml      | Integer         | AMR level limits for hydrodynamical and chemical processes |
|`species_diffusion_type`| meshV5.xml      | 0/1, default 0  | 0: conservative species diffusion, 1: pressure variation-dependent species diffusion|
| `strang_splitting_flag`| meshV5.xml      | 0/1, default 1  | 0: turn off Strang splitting; 1: turn on Strang splitting |
| `CanteraInput`         | modelV4.xml     | Path to YAML    | Chemistry configuration      |

### Critical Notes
- The `CanteraInput` in `modelV4.xml` is required even for inert simulations to model the thermodynamic and transport properties.
- The `TOTAL_SPECIES_NUMBER` in CMakeLists.txt shall be the same with the species number in the Cantera file.
- Transport models require `additionalPhysic type="viscosity"`  in `modelV4.xml`

---

## 5. Architecture Overview

### Class Inheritance
![Class Diagram](figures/fire_inheritance.png)
- White: ECOGEN base classes
- Red: Fire-specific implementations
- Green: Cantera integrations

### Simulation Workflow
![Fire_flow_chart_simple](figures/Fire_flow_chart_simple.png "The process and key functions called for advancing one time step at level *lvl* (*lvl < L*, non-finest AMR layer) in Fire.")



Fire-Specific Customizations (Red Highlights):

🔴 Overridden ECOGEN methods for:
- Hydrodynamic processes for the multi-component thermally perfect gas
- Chemical source term integration
- AMR refinement criteria

---

**Acknowledgments**  
This work builds upon the ECOGEN framework. Please cite both projects when using Fire in academic publications.

Commit message:

add proprocessing Notes for macOS users

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="figures/Fire_AMR.png" alt="Fire Architecture" width="400">

</p>

# Fire - Adaptive Mesh Refinement Solver for Compressible Reacting Flows

**Fire** is an open-source CFD solver specializing in compressible reacting flows, built upon the [ECOGEN-v2.0](https://github.com/code-mphi/ECOGEN/tree/38da6745034a541fa9355ebc57f413c4ac8ef7a4) framework with enhanced combustion modeling capabilities. Key features include:

- 🚀 Advanced AMR strategies for flame and wave front resolution
- 🔥 Integrated Cantera chemistry solver
- 📐 Multi-dimensional simulation support (1D-3D)
- 🧪 Validated against benchmark combustion cases

## Table of Contents
1. [Installation](#1-installation)  
2. [Example Cases](#2-example-cases)  
3. [Post-Processing](#3-post-processing)  
4. [Input File Configuration](#4-input-file-configuration)  
5. [Architecture Overview](#5-architecture-overview)

---

## 1. Installation

### Prerequisites
- Linux OS (Ubuntu 20.04/RedHat tested)
- MPI implementation (OpenMPI recommended)
- Conda package manager
- Cantera 3.1.0 with C++ interface
- cmake 3.10 or higher


### Step-by-Step Setup

1. **Install libcantera-devel 3.0.0b1**
```bash
conda create --name ct --channel cantera/label/dev libcantera-devel==3.0.0b1
```

2. **Install MPI (Ubuntu)**
```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install openmpi-bin openmpi-common libopenmpi-dev
```

3. **Build Fire Solver**
```bash
# From any example case directory:
./run.sh [options]

# Available options:
#   --debug    - Debug build
#   -j N       - Use N parallel processes
#   --no-run   - Build only
```

> **Note**  
> The conda environment **must** be named `ct` for automatic build detection

---

## 2. Example Cases

| Case Name                  | Description                                  | Dimensions | Reference |
|----------------------------|----------------------------------------------|------------|-----------|
| `1D_detonation`            | Gaseous detonation wave                     | 1D         | [Paolucci 2014](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2014.01.025) |
| `1D_H2-Air_deflagration`            | Gaseous deflagaration wave                     | 1D         | None|
| `2D_ISBI_Case_[1-5]`                  | Inert shock-bubble interaction with different grid setups                 | 2D         | [Ding 2018](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5050091) |
| `2D_RSBI`                  | Reactive shock-bubble interaction                    | 2D         | [Diegelmann 2016](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.combustflame.2016.09.014) |
| `2D_Channel_detonation_[1-2]`    |  Detonation with cellular structures using HLLC or HLLC-LM schemes          | 2D         | [Paolucci 2014](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2014.03.059) |
| `3D_Channel_detonation`    | Large-scale & challenging detonation simulation           | 3D         | None |

**Case Setup Instructions:**
- For each case, the setup files are located in the `input_files/`.
- Detailed instructions can be found in [manuals of ECOGEN-v2.0](https://github.com/code-mphi/ECOGEN/tree/38da6745034a541fa9355ebc57f413c4ac8ef7a4/libTests).

**Avoid spaces in paths**
- Ensure all directory paths (including those for `Fire` or case files) contain no spaces.  
  **Valid example:** `/home/user1/test_case/Fire`  
  **Invalid example:** `/home/user1/test case/Fire`  

**Quick Start:**
```bash
cd example_cases/1D_detonation
./run.sh
```

```bash
cd example_cases/2D_RSBI
./run.sh
```

---

## 3. Post-Processing

Simulation outputs are stored in `results/[Case_Name]/` in the case folder with:

- AMR grid data in `*.vtu` format in `datasets/` folder
- Time metadata in `infoCalcul.out`
- ParaView collection file `collectionParaview.pvd`

Recommended visualization workflow:
- Open `collectionParaview.pvd` in ParaView
- Use `pMax` field for cellular structure analysis
- 1D case results can be plotted using the `plot_1D_*.py` script prepared in the 1D case folders.

⚠️ Important Note for macOS Users

If you encounter a parse error when opening simulation results (*.vtu files) in ParaView on a Mac, this is likely [a known issue with reading the default ASCII-format data](https://discourse.paraview.org/t/cannot-read-vtu-file-with-the-data-array-in-the-element-may-be-too-short-message/14266).

To fix this, you must set the output format to binary.
1. In your case folder, open the mainV5.xml file.
2. Find the output settings and change the binary value to true.

This will generate binary-format .vtu files that are fully compatible with ParaView on macOS.

---

## 4. Input File Configuration

### Essential Parameters

| Parameter              | Location        | Values          | Description                  |
|------------------------|-----------------|-----------------|------------------------------|
| `riemann_type`         | meshV5.xml      | 1(HLL), 2(HLLC), 3(HLLC-LM) | Inviscid flux scheme selection        |
| `gradRho_flag`         | meshV5.xml      | 0/1             | Turn on/off the 3rd AMR strategy   |
| `lvlHydro`/`lvlChem`   | meshV5.xml      | Integer         | AMR level limits for hydrodynamical and chemical processes |
|`species_diffusion_type`| meshV5.xml      | 0/1, default 0  | 0: conservative species diffusion, 1: pressure variation-dependent species diffusion|
| `strang_splitting_flag`| meshV5.xml      | 0/1, default 1  | 0: turn off Strang splitting; 1: turn on Strang splitting |
| `CanteraInput`         | modelV4.xml     | Path to YAML    | Chemistry configuration      |

### Critical Notes
- The `CanteraInput` in `modelV4.xml` is required even for inert simulations to model the thermodynamic and transport properties.
- The `TOTAL_SPECIES_NUMBER` in CMakeLists.txt shall be the same with the species number in the Cantera file.
- Transport models require `additionalPhysic type="viscosity"`  in `modelV4.xml`

---

## 5. Architecture Overview

### Class Inheritance
![Class Diagram](figures/fire_inheritance.png)
- White: ECOGEN base classes
- Red: Fire-specific implementations
- Green: Cantera integrations

### Simulation Workflow
![Fire_flow_chart_simple](figures/Fire_flow_chart_simple.png "The process and key functions called for advancing one time step at level *lvl* (*lvl < L*, non-finest AMR layer) in Fire.")



Fire-Specific Customizations (Red Highlights):

🔴 Overridden ECOGEN methods for:
- Hydrodynamic processes for the multi-component thermally perfect gas
- Chemical source term integration
- AMR refinement criteria

---

**Acknowledgments**  
This work builds upon the ECOGEN framework. Please cite both projects when using Fire in academic publications.
